community.md, before:

# Join the developer community

Don't build it alone! We've got an awesome community that you can interact with during your journey to creating your XD plugin.

Whether you're looking for help, community discussion, or want to give us feedback, you've come to the right place! 


## Give and get help

- [Adobe XD Platform Forums](https://forums.adobexdplatform.com/): Open discussion, Q&A, and support with community experts and Adobe staff on anything related to building XD plugins. Jump in and say hi (we'll say hi back)!
- [Stackoverflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/adobe-xd): You can also ask questions to the broader developer community on Stackoverflow. Use the `adobe-xd` tag when asking questions.


## Give us feedback

- [API bug reports and feature requests](https://forums.adobexdplatform.com/c/api-feedback): Got an API bug or feature request that you want us to consider? Bring it to the API Feedback forum for community voting and discussion.
- [Application feedback](https://adobexd.uservoice.com/): Want to file a bug report or feature request for XD itself (not API-specific)? Tell us on UserVoice.



## Get the latest news

- [Adobe Tech Blog](https://medium.com/adobetech): Developer-focused news from across Adobe. We post about API updates, how-tos, events, and more on this blog. Be sure to follow us for regular updates that matter to you.
- [CC Developer Newsletter](): CC Ecosystem updates delivered directly to your inbox. We cover topics ranging from API announcements to go-to-market tips. Sign up for the newsletter to stay in the loop on the latest from across the ecosystem.


## Open source

- [XD repos](https://github.com/AdobeXD): See our GitHub repos for opportunities to contribute. Each repo has a Code of Conduct and Contributing file that you should review before getting started.
- [Your repos](https://github.com/AdobeXD/xd-awesome): Open sourcing something that you think would benefit the broader developer community? Consider submitting it for addition to the `xd-awesome` repo.

Commit message:

Fleshed out community page. Moved FAQ to forums.

community.md, after:

# Join the developer community

Don't build it alone! We've got an awesome community that you can interact with during your journey to creating your XD plugin.

Whether you're looking for help, community discussion, or want to give us feedback, you've come to the right place! 


## Give and get help

- [FAQ](https://forums.adobexdplatform.com/c/xd/faq): Browse our FAQ on the forums for quick answers to common issues and questions.
- [Adobe XD Platform Forums](https://forums.adobexdplatform.com/): Open discussion, Q&A, and support with community experts and Adobe staff on anything related to building XD plugins. Jump in and say hi (we'll say hi back)!
- [Stackoverflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/adobe-xd): You can also ask questions to the broader developer community on Stackoverflow. Use the `adobe-xd` tag when asking questions.


## Give us feedback

- [API bug reports and feature requests](https://forums.adobexdplatform.com/c/api-feedback): Got an API bug or feature request that you want us to consider? Bring it to the API Feedback forum for community voting and discussion.
- [Application feedback](https://adobexd.uservoice.com/): Want to file a bug report or feature request for XD itself (not API-specific)? Tell us on UserVoice.



## Get the latest news

- [Adobe Tech Blog](https://medium.com/adobetech): Developer-focused news from across Adobe. We post about API updates, how-tos, events, and more on this blog. Be sure to follow us for regular updates that matter to you.
- [CC Developer Newsletter](): CC Ecosystem updates delivered directly to your inbox. We cover topics ranging from API announcements to go-to-market tips. Sign up for the newsletter to stay in the loop on the latest from across the ecosystem.


## Open source

- [XD repos](https://github.com/AdobeXD): See our GitHub repos for opportunities to contribute. Each repo has a Code of Conduct and Contributing file that you should review before getting started.
- [Your repos](https://github.com/AdobeXD/xd-awesome): Open sourcing something that you think would benefit the broader developer community? Consider submitting it for addition to the `xd-awesome` repo.
