index.md, before:

# Adobe XD Plugins API

Adobe XD plugins provide a way for developers to extend XD functionality. Plugins can manipulate objects on canvas and alter their properties.

*   **Change the properties of objects.** Plugins can change border, fill, opacity, and other object properties without direct user interaction.
*   **Add and remove items on canvas.** Your plugin can add rectangles, paths, text, and other shapes to the canvas. Using paths, almost any two-dimensional object can be created.
*   **Automate and extend user actions.** Plugins can automate repetitive actions and free users to focus on content.

**To begin, read the [Getting Started guide](./guides/getting-started.md).** Then return here for more information & detailed API documentation.

- [Plugin Structure](#structure)
- [API Modules](#apis)
- [Core Concepts](#concepts)
    - [Scenegraph](#scenegraph)
    - [Edit context rules](#edit-contexts)
    - [Coordinate spaces](#coordinate-spaces)
    - [Properties with object values](#object-value-properties)
    - [Asynchronous code](#async)

<br>

<a name="structure"></a>
## Anatomy of a Plugin
An XD plugin consists of a folder containing two files:

* `xdplugin.json` - Metadata describing the plugin and which menu items it exposes
* `main.js` - JavaScript source code (a plugin cannot be split into multiple JS files _yet_)

Plugin folders are located in XD's platform-specific [plugins location](./reference/plugin-location.md).

<a name="manifest"></a>
#### JSON manifest

Among other metadata, the manifest specifies a list of _menu items_ to add to XD's Plugins menu. The manifest assigns
each item a _command ID_. Your plugin's main.js file will link each command ID to a _handler function_ that executes
when the menu command is invoked by the user.

The declaration for a single menu item looks like this:
```json
    {
        "type": "menu",
        "label": "Hello World",
        "commandId": "helloCommand"
    }
```

See [detailed manifest documentation](./reference/manifest.md) for more.

<a name="menu-item-handlers"></a>
#### Menu item handlers

Your `main.js` file returns a map linking each commandId (from the manifest) to a _handler function_:

```js
function sayHello(selection, root) {
    console.log("Hello, world!");
}

return {
    commands: {
        helloCommand: sayHello
    }
};
```

The command handler is passed two contextual arguments:
* The current [selection](./reference/selection.md) state
* The root node of the [scenegraph](./reference/scenegraph.md) (document structure), which the selected objects lie within

#### Accessing API modules

Some objects are passed directly to your command handler function (see above). Other APIs must be loaded by your
plugin using `require()` (see below).

Note: you cannot _yet_ use `require()` to load your own JS code that is provided by your plugin. It is currently used
only to access build-in XD APIs.


<a name="apis"></a>
## API Modules

#### Principal API modules

* [selection](./reference/selection.md) - Indicates the selected nodes and related context
    * This object is passed as an argument to your command handler function (see above)
* [scenegraph](./reference/scenegraph.md) - APIs available on document nodes
    * Normally you can use these APIs by simply accessing the arguments passed to your command's handler function
      (`selection` and `root`).
    * To create _new_ nodes in the document, load this module explicitly to access the constructor functions:
      <br>`var Rectangle = require("scenegraph").Rectangle;`
      <br>`var node = new Rectangle();`
* [commands](./reference/commands.md) - Invoke commands to change the document structure and other complex operations.
    * Load this module explicitly: `var commands = require("commands");`
* [clipboard](./reference/clipboard.md) - Copy text to the clipboard.
    * Load this module explicitly: `var clipboard = require("clipboard");`

#### Helper classes

* [SceneNodeList](./reference/SceneNodeList.md) - This is the type of the `children` property on scenenodes


<a name="concepts"></a>
## Core XD Concepts

<a name="scenegraph"></a>
##### Scenegraph

The XD document is represented as a hierarchical tree of nodes called the **scenegraph**. Some scenenodes may contain children (e.g. a
Group or Artboard), while others are leaf nodes (e.g. a Rectangle or Text node).

Typically, you access scenegraph nodes via the [`selection`](./reference/selection.md) argument that is passed to your plugin command.

You can modify properties on any scenenodes within the _current edit context_ (see below), and you can add leaf nodes to the edit
context, but you cannot make _structural_ changes directly to the scenegraph tree - e.g. reordering nodes or changing nesting. To do
this, instead use [commands](./reference/commands.md).

<a name="edit-contexts"></a>
##### Edit context rules

The **edit context** is the scope in which selection and edit operations must occur:
- If the user has drilled down into a container node, that container is the current edit context and only its immediate children
  are in scope for selection/editing.
- If the user hasn't drilled into any container nodes, then XD is in the _root edit context_, and its scope includes all immediate
  children of the pasteboard (including Artboards), *and* all immediate children of all those Artboards.

Like nearly all edit operations in XD, your plugin is limited to making changes inside the scope of the current edit context.

![diagram of Edit Contexts](images/editContexts.png)

**Simple changes** can be made directly to the scenegraph nodes that are in scope:
- Change a property
- Delete a node
- Add a new _leaf node_ (basic shape node)

**Structural changes** _cannot_ be made directly, since their impact extends to nodes outside the edit context's scope. You can make
structural changes by scripting XD commands:
- Ungroup (or break apart other container types) - use the [`ungroup()` command](./reference/commands.md#module_commands.ungroup)
- Create new Groups (add a whole _tree_ of new nodes) - use the [`group()` command](./reference/commands.md#module_commands.group)
- Rearrange Z order - use commands such as [`bringToFront()`](./reference/commands.md#module_commands.bringToFront)

If a plugin breaks any of these rules, its entire edit operation will be reverted to protect the user's document from corruption.

<a name="coordinate-spaces"></a>
##### Coordinate spaces

Each layer of the scenegraph tree can apply a _transform_ (rotation and/or translation), creating a hierarchy of nested _coordinate
spaces_. Due to rotation, the X and Y axes of different coordinate spaces might point in different directions. Take the example of
a rotated rectangle that is inside an artboard:

![diagram of coordinate spaces](images/coordSpaces.png)

Note: The top-left corner of a node is not always located at (0,0) in its own local coordinate space. Use `localBounds` to get the true top-left
of a node. For example, the baseline of a [Point Text node](./reference/scenegraph.md#Text) is at Y=0 in its local coordinates, so its
upper-left corner is at a negative Y value. Similarly, centered or right-aligned text will start at a negative X value in local coordinates.

<a name="object-value-properties"></a>
##### Properties with object values

Some scenegraph properties have values that are not simple primitive types (e.g. numbers), but rather are objects with sub-properties of
their own. In order to update the document with changes, you must invoke the top-level setter on the _scenenode object_ itself &ndash;
changing properties on the object value "inline" will not result in an update.

For example:
```js
// Right:
var color = node.fill;
color.r = 0x80;
node.fill = color;  // update fill in the scenegraph by kicking the node's setter

// Wrong - document will not update:
node.color.r = 0x80;
```

**Known issue:** When modifying a _gradient fill_ object specifically, you must clone the gradient returned by the getter before modifying
it, to avoid issues with Undo history:

```js
var gradient = node.fill;
gradient = gradient.clone();  // important!
gradient.startX = 0.0;
gradient.startY = 1.0;
node.fill = gradient;
```

<a name="async"></a>
##### Asynchronous code

**Known issue:** All plugin code must execute synchronously for now. Please do not use Promises or the `async` keyword in any of your
code. Otherwise, XD will stop working correctly.

Commit message:

- Add diagram for local bounds origin discussion - Add docs (with diagram) on path bounds vs. draw bounds - Add diagram illustrating scenegraph structure - Nested listing of scenegraph class hierarchy - Add notes on how XD coordinates relate to DPI

index.md, after:

# Adobe XD Plugins API

Adobe XD plugins provide a way for developers to extend XD functionality. Plugins can manipulate objects on canvas and alter their properties.

*   **Change the properties of objects.** Plugins can change border, fill, opacity, and other object properties without direct user interaction.
*   **Add and remove items on canvas.** Your plugin can add rectangles, paths, text, and other shapes to the canvas. Using paths, almost any two-dimensional object can be created.
*   **Automate and extend user actions.** Plugins can automate repetitive actions and free users to focus on content.

**To begin, read the [Getting Started guide](./guides/getting-started.md).** Then return here for more information & detailed API documentation.

- [Plugin Structure](#structure)
- [API Modules](#apis)
- [Core Concepts](#concepts)
    - [Scenegraph](#scenegraph)
    - [Edit context rules](#edit-contexts)
    - [Coordinate spaces](#coordinate-spaces)
    - [Properties with object values](#object-value-properties)
    - [Asynchronous code](#async)

<br>

<a name="structure"></a>
## Anatomy of a Plugin
An XD plugin consists of a folder containing two files:

* `xdplugin.json` - Metadata describing the plugin and which menu items it exposes
* `main.js` - JavaScript source code (a plugin cannot be split into multiple JS files _yet_)

Plugin folders are located in XD's platform-specific [plugins location](./reference/plugin-location.md).

<a name="manifest"></a>
#### JSON manifest

Among other metadata, the manifest specifies a list of _menu items_ to add to XD's Plugins menu. The manifest assigns
each item a _command ID_. Your plugin's main.js file will link each command ID to a _handler function_ that executes
when the menu command is invoked by the user.

The declaration for a single menu item looks like this:
```json
    {
        "type": "menu",
        "label": "Hello World",
        "commandId": "helloCommand"
    }
```

See [detailed manifest documentation](./reference/manifest.md) for more.

<a name="menu-item-handlers"></a>
#### Menu item handlers

Your `main.js` file returns a map linking each commandId (from the manifest) to a _handler function_:

```js
function sayHello(selection, root) {
    console.log("Hello, world!");
}

return {
    commands: {
        helloCommand: sayHello
    }
};
```

The command handler is passed two contextual arguments:
* The current [selection](./reference/selection.md) state
* The root node of the [scenegraph](./reference/scenegraph.md) (document structure), which the selected objects lie within

#### Accessing API modules

Some objects are passed directly to your command handler function (see above). Other APIs must be loaded by your
plugin using `require()` (see below).

Note: you cannot _yet_ use `require()` to load your own JS code that is provided by your plugin. It is currently used
only to access build-in XD APIs.


<a name="apis"></a>
## API Modules

#### Principal API modules

* [selection](./reference/selection.md) - Indicates the selected nodes and related context
    * This object is passed as an argument to your command handler function (see above)
* [scenegraph](./reference/scenegraph.md) - APIs available on document nodes
    * Normally you can use these APIs by simply accessing the arguments passed to your command's handler function
      (`selection` and `root`).
    * To create _new_ nodes in the document, load this module explicitly to access the constructor functions:
      <br>`var Rectangle = require("scenegraph").Rectangle;`
      <br>`var node = new Rectangle();`
* [commands](./reference/commands.md) - Invoke commands to change the document structure and other complex operations.
    * Load this module explicitly: `var commands = require("commands");`
* [clipboard](./reference/clipboard.md) - Copy text to the clipboard.
    * Load this module explicitly: `var clipboard = require("clipboard");`

#### Helper classes

* [SceneNodeList](./reference/SceneNodeList.md) - This is the type of the `children` property on scenenodes


<a name="concepts"></a>
## Core XD Concepts

<a name="scenegraph"></a>
##### Scenegraph

The XD document is represented as a hierarchical tree of nodes called the **scenegraph**. Some scenenodes may contain children (e.g. a
Group or Artboard), while others are leaf nodes (e.g. a Rectangle or Text node).

![example of scenegraph tree](images/scenegraphExample.png)

Typically, you access scenegraph nodes via the [`selection`](./reference/selection.md) argument that is passed to your plugin command.

You can modify properties on any scenenodes within the _current edit context_ (see below), and you can add leaf nodes to the edit
context, but you cannot make _structural_ changes directly to the scenegraph tree - e.g. reordering nodes or changing nesting. To do
this, instead use [commands](./reference/commands.md).

<a name="edit-contexts"></a>
##### Edit context rules

The **edit context** is the scope in which selection and edit operations must occur:
- If the user has drilled down into a container node, that container is the current edit context and only its immediate children
  are in scope for selection/editing.
- If the user hasn't drilled into any container nodes, then XD is in the _root edit context_, and its scope includes all immediate
  children of the pasteboard (including Artboards), *and* all immediate children of all those Artboards.

Like nearly all edit operations in XD, your plugin is limited to making changes inside the scope of the current edit context.

![diagram of Edit Contexts](images/editContexts.png)

**Simple changes** can be made directly to the scenegraph nodes that are in scope:
- Change a property
- Delete a node
- Add a new _leaf node_ (basic shape node)

**Structural changes** _cannot_ be made directly, since their impact extends to nodes outside the edit context's scope. You can make
structural changes by scripting XD commands:
- Ungroup (or break apart other container types) - use the [`ungroup()` command](./reference/commands.md#module_commands.ungroup)
- Create new Groups (add a whole _tree_ of new nodes) - use the [`group()` command](./reference/commands.md#module_commands.group)
- Rearrange Z order - use commands such as [`bringToFront()`](./reference/commands.md#module_commands.bringToFront)

If a plugin breaks any of these rules, its entire edit operation will be reverted to protect the user's document from corruption.

<a name="coordinate-spaces"></a>
##### Coordinate spaces

Sizes and distances in XD are specified in DPI-independent pixels, equivalent to pixels on a 1x display. This is similar to the "CSS
pixels" used in web design.

Each layer of the scenegraph tree can apply a _transform_ (rotation and/or translation), creating a hierarchy of nested _coordinate
spaces_. Due to rotation, the X and Y axes of different coordinate spaces might point in different directions. Take the example of
a rotated rectangle that is inside an artboard:

![diagram of coordinate spaces](images/coordSpaces.png)

The top-left corner of a node is not always located at (0,0) in its own local coordinate space. Use `localBounds` to get the true top-left
of a node. For example, the baseline of a [Point Text node](./reference/scenegraph.md#Text) is at Y=0 in its local coordinates, so its
upper-left corner is at a negative Y value. Similarly, centered or right-aligned text will start at a negative X value in local coordinates.

The top-left corner of a node is not always located at (0,0) in its own local coordinate space. Use [`localBounds`](./reference/scenegraph.md#SceneNode+localBounds)
to get the true top-left of a node. Here are some examples of nodes where the local origin is not the node's visual top-left corner:

![examples of localBounds origin](images/localOrigin.png)

Typically, when discussing the bounds of a node we are referring to the bounds of its _path outline_ &ndash; the hairline "spine" that its fill
fits within and that the thickness of its stroke is anchored to. Nodes may have visible pixels that extend _outside_ the path outline bounds.
For example, a center or outside stroke protrudes beyond the path outline, as does the dropshadow and parts of the "Object Blur" effect:

![examples of path bounds vs. draw bounds](images/pathBounds.png)

If you need a bounding box that encompasses _all_ visible pixels of an object, use [`globalDrawBounds`](./reference/scenegraph.md#SceneNode+globalDrawBounds).
The draw bounds are the bounds used when exporting a bitmap image, for example. However, in most other cases (including align/snapping), XD uses the
path outline bounds.

<a name="object-value-properties"></a>
##### Properties with object values

Some scenegraph properties have values that are not simple primitive types (e.g. numbers), but rather are objects with sub-properties of
their own. In order to update the document with changes, you must invoke the top-level setter on the _scenenode object_ itself &ndash;
changing properties on the object value "inline" will not result in an update.

For example:
```js
// Right:
var color = node.fill;
color.r = 0x80;
node.fill = color;  // update fill in the scenegraph by kicking the node's setter

// Wrong - document will not update:
node.color.r = 0x80;
```

**Known issue:** When modifying a _gradient fill_ object specifically, you must clone the gradient returned by the getter before modifying
it, to avoid issues with Undo history:

```js
var gradient = node.fill;
gradient = gradient.clone();  // important!
gradient.startX = 0.0;
gradient.startY = 1.0;
node.fill = gradient;
```

<a name="async"></a>
##### Asynchronous code

**Known issue:** All plugin code must execute synchronously for now. Please do not use Promises or the `async` keyword in any of your
code. Otherwise, XD will stop working correctly.
