migrations/index.md, before:

# How to migrate from modal to panel

Are you interested in converting your modal plugin to a panel plugin? Keep in mind that not every modal plugin is a good fit for this change. If you are curious about what differences exist, take a look at the docs for each UI entrypoint:

- [Modal dialogs](/reference/ui/dialogs/index.md)
- [Panels](/reference/ui/panels/index.md)

If you determine your modal-based plugin would be even better as a panel, read on!

## Prerequisites

- Basic knowledge of HTML, CSS, and JavaScript
- [Modal Quick Start Tutorial](/tutorials/quick-start)
- [Panel Quick Start Tutorial](/tutorials/quick-start-panel)
- [Debugging Tutorial](/tutorials/debugging/index.md)

## Sample code

The complete example can be found in [our Samples repository](https://github.com/AdobeXD/plugin-samples/tree/master/quick-start-panel).

## Development Steps

We are going to take a look at a sample plugin that lets users increase the width and height of the selected rectangle by inputing pixel values in the UI. As you can imagine, this process would be more efficient for the user if the plugin provided UI in a panel.

Let's see what this plugin will look like before and after:

**As a modal**

![Modal UI example](../../images/modal-ui-example.png)

**As a panel**

![Panel UI example](../../images/panel-ui-example.png)

Now, let's go through the steps of converting a modal plugin to a panel-based plugin.

### 1. Open your modal plugin code

Note that your plugin structure does not change. Just like with modal plugins, the minimum required files for your panel plugin to work are `main.js` and `manifest.json`.

![Same plugin structure](../../images/same-plugin-structure.png)

You might have more files than this, depending on how you have structured your plugin.

### 2. Change `uiEntryPoints` and `host.minVersion` of your `manifest.json`

Let's take a look at both cases.

Modal:

```js
"host": {
        "app": "XD",
        "minVersion": "15.0"
},
"uiEntryPoints": [
        {
            "type": "menu",
            "label": "Enlarge a Rectangle",
            "commandId": "enlargeRectangle"
        }
    ]
```

Panel:

```js
"host": {
        "app": "XD",
        "minVersion": "21.0"
},
"uiEntryPoints": [
        {
            "type": "panel",
            "label": "Enlarge a Rectangle",
            "panelId": "enlargeRectangle"
        }
    ]
```

As you can see, `host.minVersion` is changed to `21.0` since `21.0` is the earliest version of XD that supports panels. Also, `uiEntryPoints` needs to be updated as well. The `type` key should be changed to `panel` and `commandId` key needs to be changed to `panelId`.

### 3. Understand the new structure of `main.js`

A modal plugin needs one function to be exported:

```js
function enlargeRectangle() {
  // your code here
}

module.exports = {
  commands: {
    enlargeRectangle
  }
};
```

A panel plugin, on the other hand, expects you to export an _object_ with one required _lifecycle method_ named `show`, and with optional lifecycle methods name `hide` and `update`:

```js
function show(event) {
  // your code here
}

function hide(event) {
  // your code here
}

function update(selection) {
  // your code here
}

module.exports = {
  panels: {
    enlargeRectangle: {
      show,
      hide,
      update
    }
  }
};
```

Review the specifics of these panel lifecycle methods in the [references](/reference/ui/panels/index.md) before moving on.

### 3. Review your modal `main.js` code

Let's first look at the `main.js` file of your modal plugin:

```js
const { selection } = require("scenegraph"); // [1]
let dialog;

function enlargeRectangle() { // [2]
  const html = `
<style>
    .break {
        flex-wrap: wrap;
    }
    label.row > span {
        color: #8E8E8E;
        width: 20px;
        text-align: right;
        font-size: 9px;
    }
    label.row input {
        flex: 1 1 auto;
    }
    form {
        width:90%;
        margin: -20px;
        padding: 0px;
    }
</style>
<form method="dialog" id="main">
    <div class="row break">
        <label class="row">
            <span>↕︎</span>
            <input type="number" uxp-quiet="true" id="txtV" value="10" placeholder="Height" />
        </label>
        <label class="row">
            <span>↔︎</span>
            <input type="number" uxp-quiet="true" id="txtH" value="10" placeholder="Width" />
        </label>
    </div>
    <footer>
        <button id="ok" type="submit" uxp-variant="cta">Apply</button>
    </footer>
</form>
`;

  function increaseRectangleSize() { // [3]
    const height = Number(document.querySelector("#txtV").value); // [4]
    const width = Number(document.querySelector("#txtH").value);
    const selectedRectangle = selection.items[0]; // [5]
    selectedRectangle.width += width; // [6]
    selectedRectangle.height += height;
  }

  if (!dialog) {
    let dialog = document.createElement("dialog"); // [7]
    dialog.innerHTML = html; // [8]
    document.appendChild(dialog); // [9]
    document.querySelector("form").addEventListener("submit", increaseRectangleSize); // [10]
  }  

  return dialog.showModal(); // [11]
}

module.exports = { // [12]
  commands: {
    enlargeRectangle
  }
};
```

This code does the following:

1. Gets reference to the `selection`.
2. Creates a `const` called `html` and stores your UI markup, including elements for `style`, `form`, and so on. The `form` tag contains a `div` which includes two text input fields and a `footer` which has a button for users to click on. The `p` tag contains warning text which is used to warn users when they select a non-rectangle node inside the active XD document.
3. Creates a nested function called `increaseRectangleSize`.
4. Gets user input value from the "height" and "width" input elements.
5. Gets the first currently selected node. (Some UI logic will be added later to ensure this is a rectangle.)
6. Modifies the `width` and `height` of the selected rectangle.
7. Creates a `dialog` element.
8. Attaches the HTML created in step #1.
9. Attaches the `dialog` element created in step #8 to the DOM.
10. Adds a submit listener for the form element, attaching the `increaseRectangleSize` function created in step #2.
11. Returns a JavaScript Promise which will resolve when the dialog is dismissed by the user.
12. Exports the main function.

### 4. Modify the `main.js` file

Let's start modifying code in the `main.js` file.

#### Warn the user about invalid selections

Your HTML markup does not have to change, but let's add a `p` tag to show a warning message if the user has selected a node that's not rectangle:

```html
<p id="warning">
  This plugin requires you to select a rectangle in the document. Please select
  a rectangle.
</p>
```

Unlike modal UI, panel UI can stay open and persistent, optionally updating in real time based on a user's selection.

#### Request to make changes to the scenegraph

Panel plugins are asynchronous and they require a special function to hold the scenegraph open when your plugin wants to make changes to the document.

Your plugin can request to make edits to the document with the `application.editDocument` method:

```js
const { editDocument } = require("application");
```

Any part of your code that makes changes to the scenegraph needs to be wrapped in an `editDocument` call:

```js
editDocument({ editLabel: "Increase rectangle size" }, function(selection) {
  const selectedRectangle = selection.items[0];
  selectedRectangle.width += width;
  selectedRectangle.height += height;
});
```

See the [`editDocument`](/reference/application.md) reference for further information.

#### Make a panel element

Now, instead of creating a `dialog`, let's create a `panel` element, insert the HTML, and add an event listener with the `increaseRectangleSize` function attached.

You can replace these lines of code:

```js
let dialog = document.createElement("dialog");
dialog.innerHTML = html;
document.appendChild(dialog);
document.querySelector("form").addEventListener("submit", increaseRectangleSize);
return dialog.showModal();
```

... with this:

```js
let panelContainer = document.createElement("panel");
panelContainer.innerHTML = html;
panelContainer.querySelector("form").addEventListener("submit", increaseRectangleSize);
event.node.appendChild(panelContainer);
```

If you're wondering where the `event` object in that last line came from, we'll have a look at that in the next section.

#### Your `show` lifecycle method: bring it all together

All of the `main.js` code we've modified so far will be the content of your `show` lifecycle method that runs when the plugin opens.

Note that the `show` and `hide` lifecycle methods for panel-based plugins receive an `event` argument. The `event.node` property is the DOM element where you can attach your panel UI for display in the application.

Here is our complete `show` method for this plugin:

```js
let panel;

function show(event) {
  const html = `
<style>
    label.row > span {
        color: #8E8E8E;
        width: 20px;
        text-align: right;
        font-size: 9px;
    }
    label.row input {
        flex: 1 1 auto;
    }
    .show {
        display: block;
    }
    .hide {
        display: none;
    }
</style>
<form method="dialog" id="main">
    <div class="row break">
        <label class="row">
            <span>↕︎</span>
            <input type="number" uxp-quiet="true" id="txtV" value="10" placeholder="Height" />
        </label>
        <label class="row">
            <span>↔︎</span>
            <input type="number" uxp-quiet="true" id="txtH" value="10" placeholder="Width" />
        </label>
    </div>
    <footer><button id="ok" type="submit" uxp-variant="cta">Apply</button></footer>
</form>
<p id="warning">This plugin requires you to select a rectangle in the document. Please select a rectangle.</p>
`;

  function increaseRectangleSize() {
    const { editDocument } = require("application");

    const height = Number(document.querySelector("#txtV").value);
    const width = Number(document.querySelector("#txtH").value);

    editDocument({ editLabel: "Increase rectangle size" }, function(selection) {
      const selectedRectangle = selection.items[0];
      selectedRectangle.width += width;
      selectedRectangle.height += height;
    });
  }

  if (!panel) {
      panel = document.createElement("div");
      panel.innerHTML = HTML;
      panel.querySelector("form").addEventListener("submit", increaseRectangleSize);
      event.node.appendChild(panel);
  }
}
```

#### Your `hide` lifecycle method: tidying up

Next, let's add the optional `hide` lifecycle method, which runs when the panel UI becomes invisible:

```js
function hide(event) {
  // This function triggers when the panel is hidden by user
}
```

#### Your `update` lifecycle method: staying aware as the user works

The `update` function is another optional lifecycle method that allows your plugin to dynamically respond to the user's selection changes.

We'll break this code down below:

```js
function update(selection) { // [1]
  const { Rectangle } = require("scenegraph"); // [2]
  
  const form = document.querySelector("form"); // [3]
  const warning = document.querySelector("#warning"); // [4]

  if (!selection || !(selection.items[0] instanceof Rectangle)) { // [5]
      form.className = "hide";
      warning.className = "show";
      
  } else {
      form.className = "show";
      warning.className = "hide";
  }
}
```

This code does the following:

1. Uses the `selection` argument. `update` provides two arguments, `selection` and `root`. This example only uses `selection`.
2. Gets reference to the `Rectangle` object imported from the `scenegraph` module.
3. Gets reference to the `form` element in your HTML.
4. Gets reference to the `p` element with the warning message.
5. Checks if the user has selected anything and if the selection is a rectangle. If this validation passes, the form appears and the warning message is not shown. If not, the warning message is shown to the user and the form disappears.

## Next Steps

Now you have successfully converted your modal plugin to a panel plugin!

Ready to explore further? Take a look at our other resources:

- [Tutorials](/tutorials)
- [Sample code repos](https://github.com/AdobeXD/plugin-samples)

Commit message:

Documentation polish pass for XD 21: - Reformat changelog - Wordsmithing for application.editDocument(), handlers.md, panel API docs,   menu item naming/structure docs - Rename naming.md -> menu-structure.md (plus wordsmithing) - Update lifecycle.md docs for plugin panels - Fix inconsistent create/show/hide strategy in panels/index.md sample code - Call out more directly the two main strategies for panel create/hide (in   panels/show.md, plus link from panels/index.md) - Simplify diffs in application.md

migrations/index.md, after:

# How to migrate from modal to panel

Are you interested in converting your plugin's modal dialog box UI into a panel UI? Keep in mind that not every modal dialog flow is a good fit for this change. If you are curious about what differences exist, take a look at the docs for each UI entrypoint:

- [Modal dialogs](/reference/ui/dialogs/index.md)
- [Panels](/reference/ui/panels/index.md)

If you determine your modal-based plugin would be even better as a panel, read on!

## Prerequisites

- Basic knowledge of HTML, CSS, and JavaScript
- [Modal Quick Start Tutorial](/tutorials/quick-start)
- [Panel Quick Start Tutorial](/tutorials/quick-start-panel)
- [Debugging Tutorial](/tutorials/debugging/index.md)

## Sample code

The complete example can be found in [our Samples repository](https://github.com/AdobeXD/plugin-samples/tree/master/quick-start-panel).

## Development Steps

We are going to take a look at a sample plugin that lets users increase the width and height of the selected rectangle by inputting pixel values in the UI. As you can imagine, this process would be more efficient for the user if the plugin provided UI in a panel.

Let's see what this plugin will look like before and after:

**As a modal**

![Modal UI example](../../images/modal-ui-example.png)

**As a panel**

![Panel UI example](../../images/panel-ui-example.png)

Now, let's go through the steps of converting a modal plugin to a panel-based plugin.

### 1. Open your modal plugin code

Note that your plugin structure does not change. Just like with modal plugins, the minimum required files for your panel plugin to work are `main.js` and `manifest.json`.

![Same plugin structure](../../images/same-plugin-structure.png)

You might have more files than this, depending on how you have structured your plugin.

### 2. Change `uiEntryPoints` and `host.minVersion` of your `manifest.json`

Let's take a look at both cases.

Modal:

```js
"host": {
        "app": "XD",
        "minVersion": "15.0"
},
"uiEntryPoints": [
        {
            "type": "menu",
            "label": "Enlarge a Rectangle",
            "commandId": "enlargeRectangle"
        }
    ]
```

Panel:

```js
"host": {
        "app": "XD",
        "minVersion": "21.0"
},
"uiEntryPoints": [
        {
            "type": "panel",
            "label": "Enlarge a Rectangle",
            "panelId": "enlargeRectangle"
        }
    ]
```

As you can see, `host.minVersion` is changed to `21.0` since `21.0` is the earliest version of XD that supports panels. Also, `uiEntryPoints` needs to be updated as well. The `type` key should be changed to `panel` and `commandId` key needs to be changed to `panelId`.

### 3. Understand the new structure of `main.js`

A modal-dialog command needs one function to be exported:

```js
function enlargeRectangle() {
  // your code here
}

module.exports = {
  commands: {
    enlargeRectangle
  }
};
```

Plugin panel UI, on the other hand, requires you to export an _object_ with one required _lifecycle method_ named `show`, and with optional lifecycle methods name `hide` and `update`:

```js
function show(event) {
  // your code here
}

function hide(event) {
  // your code here
}

function update(selection) {
  // your code here
}

module.exports = {
  panels: {
    enlargeRectangle: {
      show,
      hide,
      update
    }
  }
};
```

Review the specifics of these panel lifecycle methods in the [panel-object API reference](/reference/structure/handlers.md#panel) before moving on.

### 3. Review your modal `main.js` code

Let's first look at the `main.js` file of your original modal-dialog plugin:

```js
const { selection } = require("scenegraph"); // [1]
let dialog;

function enlargeRectangle() { // [2]
  const html = `
<style>
    .break {
        flex-wrap: wrap;
    }
    label.row > span {
        color: #8E8E8E;
        width: 20px;
        text-align: right;
        font-size: 9px;
    }
    label.row input {
        flex: 1 1 auto;
    }
    form {
        width:90%;
        margin: -20px;
        padding: 0px;
    }
</style>
<form method="dialog" id="main">
    <div class="row break">
        <label class="row">
            <span>↕︎</span>
            <input type="number" uxp-quiet="true" id="txtV" value="10" placeholder="Height" />
        </label>
        <label class="row">
            <span>↔︎</span>
            <input type="number" uxp-quiet="true" id="txtH" value="10" placeholder="Width" />
        </label>
    </div>
    <footer>
        <button id="ok" type="submit" uxp-variant="cta">Apply</button>
    </footer>
</form>
`;

  function increaseRectangleSize() { // [3]
    const height = Number(document.querySelector("#txtV").value); // [4]
    const width = Number(document.querySelector("#txtH").value);
    const selectedRectangle = selection.items[0]; // [5]
    selectedRectangle.width += width; // [6]
    selectedRectangle.height += height;
  }

  if (!dialog) {
    let dialog = document.createElement("dialog"); // [7]
    dialog.innerHTML = html; // [8]
    document.appendChild(dialog); // [9]
    document.querySelector("form").addEventListener("submit", increaseRectangleSize); // [10]
  }  

  return dialog.showModal(); // [11]
}

module.exports = { // [12]
  commands: {
    enlargeRectangle
  }
};
```

This code does the following:

1. Gets reference to the `selection`.
2. Creates a `const` called `html` and stores your UI markup, including elements for `style`, `form`, and so on. The `form` tag contains a `div` which includes two text input fields and a `footer` which has a button for users to click on. The `p` tag contains warning text which is used to warn users when they select a non-rectangle node inside the active XD document.
3. Creates a nested function called `increaseRectangleSize`.
4. Gets user input value from the "height" and "width" input elements.
5. Gets the first currently selected node. (Some UI logic will be added later to ensure this is a rectangle.)
6. Modifies the `width` and `height` of the selected rectangle.
7. Creates a `dialog` element.
8. Attaches the HTML created in step #1.
9. Attaches the `dialog` element created in step #8 to the DOM.
10. Adds a submit listener for the form element, attaching the `increaseRectangleSize` function created in step #2.
11. Returns a JavaScript Promise which will resolve when the dialog is dismissed by the user.
12. Exports the main function.

### 4. Modify the `main.js` file

Let's start modifying code in the `main.js` file.

#### Warn the user about invalid selections

Your HTML markup does not have to change, but let's add a `p` tag to show a warning message if the user has selected a node that's not a rectangle:

```html
<p id="warning">
  This plugin requires you to select a rectangle in the document. Please select
  a rectangle.
</p>
```

Unlike modal UI, panel UI can stay open and persistent, optionally updating in real time based on a user's selection.

#### Request to make changes to the scenegraph

Unlike menu commands, which have just a single entry point the user can trigger to run the command, panel plugins have many different ways that the user can interact with their DOM elements to trigger an action. As a result, your panel UI event handlers must call special function when you want to make changes to the XD document.

Any part of your panel that makes changes to the scenegraph needs to be wrapped in an [`application.editDocument`](/reference/application.md#module_application-editDocument) call:

```js
const { editDocument } = require("application");

editDocument({ editLabel: "Increase rectangle size" }, function(selection) {
  const selectedRectangle = selection.items[0];
  selectedRectangle.width += width;
  selectedRectangle.height += height;
});
```

#### Make a panel element

Now, instead of creating a `dialog`, let's create a `panel` element, insert the HTML, and add an event listener with the `increaseRectangleSize` function attached.

You can replace these lines of code:

```js
let dialog = document.createElement("dialog");
dialog.innerHTML = html;
document.appendChild(dialog);
document.querySelector("form").addEventListener("submit", increaseRectangleSize);
return dialog.showModal();
```

... with this:

```js
let panelContainer = document.createElement("panel");
panelContainer.innerHTML = html;
panelContainer.querySelector("form").addEventListener("submit", increaseRectangleSize);
event.node.appendChild(panelContainer);
```

If you're wondering where the `event` object in that last line came from, we'll have a look at that in the next section.

#### Your `show` lifecycle method: bring it all together

All of the `main.js` code we've modified so far will be the content of your `show` lifecycle method that runs when the plugin opens.

Note that the `show` and `hide` lifecycle methods for panel-based plugins receive an `event` argument. The `event.node` property is the DOM element where you can attach your panel UI for display in the application.

Here is our complete `show` method for this plugin:

```js
let panel;

function show(event) {
  const html = `
<style>
    label.row > span {
        color: #8E8E8E;
        width: 20px;
        text-align: right;
        font-size: 9px;
    }
    label.row input {
        flex: 1 1 auto;
    }
    .show {
        display: block;
    }
    .hide {
        display: none;
    }
</style>
<form method="dialog" id="main">
    <div class="row break">
        <label class="row">
            <span>↕︎</span>
            <input type="number" uxp-quiet="true" id="txtV" value="10" placeholder="Height" />
        </label>
        <label class="row">
            <span>↔︎</span>
            <input type="number" uxp-quiet="true" id="txtH" value="10" placeholder="Width" />
        </label>
    </div>
    <footer><button id="ok" type="submit" uxp-variant="cta">Apply</button></footer>
</form>
<p id="warning">This plugin requires you to select a rectangle in the document. Please select a rectangle.</p>
`;

  function increaseRectangleSize() {
    const { editDocument } = require("application");

    const height = Number(document.querySelector("#txtV").value);
    const width = Number(document.querySelector("#txtH").value);

    editDocument({ editLabel: "Increase rectangle size" }, function(selection) {
      const selectedRectangle = selection.items[0];
      selectedRectangle.width += width;
      selectedRectangle.height += height;
    });
  }

  if (!panel) {
      panel = document.createElement("div");
      panel.innerHTML = HTML;
      panel.querySelector("form").addEventListener("submit", increaseRectangleSize);
      event.node.appendChild(panel);
  }
}
```

#### Your `hide` lifecycle method: tidying up

Next, let's add the optional `hide` lifecycle method, which runs when the panel UI becomes invisible:

```js
function hide(event) {
  // This function triggers when the panel is hidden by user
}
```

#### Your `update` lifecycle method: staying aware as the user works

The `update` function is another optional lifecycle method that allows your plugin to dynamically respond to the user's selection changes.

We'll break this code down below:

```js
function update(selection) { // [1]
  const { Rectangle } = require("scenegraph"); // [2]
  
  const form = document.querySelector("form"); // [3]
  const warning = document.querySelector("#warning"); // [4]

  if (!selection || !(selection.items[0] instanceof Rectangle)) { // [5]
      form.className = "hide";
      warning.className = "show";
      
  } else {
      form.className = "show";
      warning.className = "hide";
  }
}
```

This code does the following:

1. Uses the `selection` argument. `update` provides two arguments, `selection` and `root`. This example only uses `selection`.
2. Gets reference to the `Rectangle` object imported from the `scenegraph` module.
3. Gets reference to the `form` element in your HTML.
4. Gets reference to the `p` element with the warning message.
5. Checks if the user has selected anything and if the selection is a rectangle. If this validation passes, the form appears and the warning message is not shown. If not, the warning message is shown to the user and the form disappears.

## Next Steps

Now you have successfully converted your modal plugin to a panel plugin!

Ready to explore further? Take a look at our other resources:

- [Tutorials](/tutorials)
- [Sample code repos](https://github.com/AdobeXD/plugin-samples)
