distribution/packaging.md, before:

# Packaging your plugin

Before you share your plugin, you'll need to package it up.

This tutorial describes how to package the files of an XD plugin. It's a simple process that can be summarized in three words: _compress_, _rename_, and _verify_.


## Prerequisite
- A code-complete plugin (if you don't have one yet, try our [Quick Start Tutorial](/tutorials/quick-start))


## Workflow

### 1. Compress your files as a .ZIP file

Select all files within your plugin's parent folder. On both macOS and Windows you can right-click to compress:

| Platform      | Menu item          |
| ------------- | -------------      |
| macOS         | _Right-click > Compress # items_ |
| Windows       | _Right-click > Send to > Compressed (zipped) folder_ |

If you plan to distribute via the XD plugin manager, make sure your .ZIP file is less than 25MB in size. You'll only be able to submit for review if your file is under the size limit.

> **tip**
> Compressing the plugin's _parent_ folder is not recommended as it complicates the requirements for filenames. Instead, compress the _contents_ of the parent folder.


### 2. Rename the .ZIP extension to .XDX

Adobe XD recognizes the .XDX file extension as an XD plugin.

By using this file extension, your plugin automactically gets the "double-click to install" feature, meaning that if you share your plugin directly to users, all they have to do is double-click to install the plugin to Adobe XD.

If you plan to submit your plugin for distribution via the XD plugin manager, renaming your .ZIP to .XDX is required.


### 3. Verify the packaging worked

Try double-clicking your .XDX file. It should prompt you to install the plugin:

![XD package install prompt](/../images/install.png)


Click install:

![XD package install success](/../images/installed.png)


You'll get a success message upon installation, after which the plugin will show up in XD.


## Next steps

You've packaged your plugin! Now you're ready to distribute your plugin.

[Learn about your options for distributing XD plugins to users](/distribution/options.html).

Commit message:

More info for common rejection reasons

distribution/packaging.md, after:

# Packaging your plugin

Before you share your plugin, you'll need to package it up.

This tutorial describes how to package the files of an XD plugin. It's a simple process that can be summarized in three words: _compress_, _rename_, and _verify_.


## Prerequisite
- A code-complete plugin (if you don't have one yet, try our [Quick Start Tutorial](/tutorials/quick-start))


## Workflow

### 1. Compress your files as a .ZIP file

Select all files within your plugin's parent folder. On both macOS and Windows you can right-click to compress:

| Platform      | Menu item          |
| ------------- | -------------      |
| macOS         | _Right-click > Compress # items_ |
| Windows       | _Right-click > Send to > Compressed (zipped) folder_ |

If you plan to distribute via the XD plugin manager, your .ZIP file **must be less than 25MB in size**. You'll only be able to submit for review if your file is under the size limit.

> **Danger**
>
> You should not compress the plugin's _parent_ folder. Instead, compress the _contents_ of the parent folder. Failure to do so will likely cause a rejection when submitting to the [I/O Console](https://console.adobe.io/plugins).


### 2. Rename the .ZIP extension to .XDX

Adobe XD recognizes the .XDX file extension as an XD plugin.

By using this file extension, your plugin automatically gets the "double-click to install" feature, meaning that if you share your plugin directly to users, all they have to do is double-click to install the plugin to Adobe XD.

If you plan to submit your plugin for distribution via the XD plugin manager, renaming your .ZIP to .XDX is required.


### 3. Verify the packaging worked

Try double-clicking your .XDX file. It should prompt you to install the plugin:

![XD package install prompt](/../images/install.png)


Click install:

![XD package install success](/../images/installed.png)


You'll get a success message upon installation, after which the plugin will show up in XD.


## Next steps

You've packaged your plugin! Now you're ready to distribute your plugin.

[Learn about your options for distributing XD plugins to users](/distribution/options.html).
