reference/SceneNodeList.md, before:

<a name="SceneNodeList"></a>

## SceneNodeList
Represents the children of a scenenode. Typically accessed via the [SceneNode.children](scenegraph.md#SceneNode-children) property.

This is _not an Array_, so you must use [`at(i)`](#SceneNodeList-at) instead of `[i]` to access children by index. It has a
number of Array-like methods such as [forEach](#SceneNodeList-forEach) for convenience, however.

Ordered from lowest z order to highest.

**Kind**: class  

**Example**
```js
let node = ...;
console.log("Node has " + node.children.length + " children");
console.log("First child: " + node.children.at(0));  // do not use `[0]` - it will not work!
node.children.forEach(function (childNode, i) {
    ...
});
```

**See**: [SceneNode.children](scenegraph.md#SceneNode-children)  

* [SceneNodeList](#SceneNodeList)
    * [.length](#SceneNodeList-length) : <code>number</code>
    * [.forEach(callback, thisArg)](#SceneNodeList-forEach) ⇒ <code>void</code>
    * [.forEachRight(callback, thisArg)](#SceneNodeList-forEachRight) ⇒ <code>void</code>
    * [.filter(callback, thisArg)](#SceneNodeList-filter) ⇒ <code>Array.&lt;!SceneNode&gt;</code>
    * [.map(callback, thisArg)](#SceneNodeList-map) ⇒ <code>Array.&lt;\*&gt;</code>
    * [.some(callback, thisArg)](#SceneNodeList-some) ⇒ <code>boolean</code>
    * [.at()](#SceneNodeList-at) ⇒ <code>SceneNode</code>


* * *

<a name="SceneNodeList-length"></a>

### sceneNodeList.length : <code>number</code>
Number of children in the list.

**Kind**: instance property of [<code>SceneNodeList</code>](#SceneNodeList)  
**Read only**: true  

* * *

<a name="SceneNodeList-forEach"></a>

### sceneNodeList.forEach(callback, thisArg) ⇒ <code>void</code>
Iterate all children in the list.

**Kind**: instance method of [<code>SceneNodeList</code>](#SceneNodeList)  

| Param | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| callback | <code>!function(!SceneNode, number)</code> | Callback, passed each child node and its index. |
| thisArg | <code>?Object</code> | Optional value for `this` when executing the callback. |


* * *

<a name="SceneNodeList-forEachRight"></a>

### sceneNodeList.forEachRight(callback, thisArg) ⇒ <code>void</code>
Iterate all children in the list, in reverse order (highest z order to lowest).

**Kind**: instance method of [<code>SceneNodeList</code>](#SceneNodeList)  

| Param | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| callback | <code>!function(!SceneNode, number)</code> | Callback, passed each child node and its index. |
| thisArg | <code>?Object</code> | Optional value for `this` when executing the callback. |


* * *

<a name="SceneNodeList-filter"></a>

### sceneNodeList.filter(callback, thisArg) ⇒ <code>Array.&lt;!SceneNode&gt;</code>
Iterates all children and returns an array of just the children that passed the filter function's test.

**Kind**: instance method of [<code>SceneNodeList</code>](#SceneNodeList)  

| Param | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| callback | <code>!function(!SceneNode, number): boolean</code> | Filter function, passed each child node and its index. |
| thisArg | <code>?Object</code> | Optional value for `this` when executing the callback. |


* * *

<a name="SceneNodeList-map"></a>

### sceneNodeList.map(callback, thisArg) ⇒ <code>Array.&lt;\*&gt;</code>
Iterates all children and returns an array of the map function's result value for each child node.

**Kind**: instance method of [<code>SceneNodeList</code>](#SceneNodeList)  

| Param | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| callback | <code>!function(!SceneNode, number): *</code> | Map function, passed each child node and its index. |
| thisArg | <code>?Object</code> | Optional value for `this` when executing the callback. |


* * *

<a name="SceneNodeList-some"></a>

### sceneNodeList.some(callback, thisArg) ⇒ <code>boolean</code>
Iterates children until the test returns true for at least one child.

**Kind**: instance method of [<code>SceneNodeList</code>](#SceneNodeList)  
**Returns**: <code>boolean</code> - True if the test function returned true for at least one child.  

| Param | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| callback | <code>!function(!SceneNode, number): boolean</code> | Test function, passed each child node and its index. |
| thisArg | <code>?Object</code> | Optional value for `this` when executing the callback. |


* * *

<a name="SceneNodeList-at"></a>

### sceneNodeList.at() ⇒ <code>SceneNode</code>
**Kind**: instance method of [<code>SceneNodeList</code>](#SceneNodeList)  
**Returns**: <code>?SceneNode</code> - Child node at the specified index in the list, or null if index is out of bounds.  

| Param | Type |
| --- | --- |
| index | <code>number</code> |


* * *

Commit message:

Docs tweaks: - Fix incorrect typing on RepeatGrid.attachImageDataSeries() - Clearer typing on GraphicNode.miterLimit and manifest uiEntryPoints - Stronger UX guidance on menu item structure & naming - Warnings about performance of SceneNodeList.at() - Include "Properties with object values" warning for shadow/blur too - Warning about selection parents on Selection.insertionParent

reference/SceneNodeList.md, after:

<a name="SceneNodeList"></a>

## SceneNodeList
Represents the children of a scenenode. Typically accessed via the [SceneNode.children](scenegraph.md#SceneNode-children) property.

This is _not an Array_, so you must use [`at(i)`](#SceneNodeList-at) instead of `[i]` to access children by index. It has a
number of Array-like methods such as [forEach](#SceneNodeList-forEach) for convenience, however. For best performance, iterate
the list using these methods rather than repeatedly calling `at()`.

Items in this list are ordered from lowest z order to highest.

**Kind**: class  

**Example**
```js
let node = ...;
console.log("Node has " + node.children.length + " children");
console.log("First child: " + node.children.at(0));  // do not use `[0]` - it will not work!
node.children.forEach(function (childNode, i) {
    ...
});
```

**See**: [SceneNode.children](scenegraph.md#SceneNode-children)  

* [SceneNodeList](#SceneNodeList)
    * [.length](#SceneNodeList-length) : <code>number</code>
    * [.forEach(callback, thisArg)](#SceneNodeList-forEach) ⇒ <code>void</code>
    * [.forEachRight(callback, thisArg)](#SceneNodeList-forEachRight) ⇒ <code>void</code>
    * [.filter(callback, thisArg)](#SceneNodeList-filter) ⇒ <code>Array.&lt;!SceneNode&gt;</code>
    * [.map(callback, thisArg)](#SceneNodeList-map) ⇒ <code>Array.&lt;\*&gt;</code>
    * [.some(callback, thisArg)](#SceneNodeList-some) ⇒ <code>boolean</code>
    * [.at()](#SceneNodeList-at) ⇒ <code>SceneNode</code>


* * *

<a name="SceneNodeList-length"></a>

### sceneNodeList.length : <code>number</code>
Number of children in the list.

**Kind**: instance property of [<code>SceneNodeList</code>](#SceneNodeList)  
**Read only**: true  

* * *

<a name="SceneNodeList-forEach"></a>

### sceneNodeList.forEach(callback, thisArg) ⇒ <code>void</code>
Iterate all children in the list.

**Kind**: instance method of [<code>SceneNodeList</code>](#SceneNodeList)  

| Param | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| callback | <code>!function(!SceneNode, number)</code> | Callback, passed each child node and its index. |
| thisArg | <code>?Object</code> | Optional value for `this` when executing the callback. |


* * *

<a name="SceneNodeList-forEachRight"></a>

### sceneNodeList.forEachRight(callback, thisArg) ⇒ <code>void</code>
Iterate all children in the list, in reverse order (highest z order to lowest).

**Kind**: instance method of [<code>SceneNodeList</code>](#SceneNodeList)  

| Param | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| callback | <code>!function(!SceneNode, number)</code> | Callback, passed each child node and its index. |
| thisArg | <code>?Object</code> | Optional value for `this` when executing the callback. |


* * *

<a name="SceneNodeList-filter"></a>

### sceneNodeList.filter(callback, thisArg) ⇒ <code>Array.&lt;!SceneNode&gt;</code>
Iterates all children and returns an array of just the children that passed the filter function's test.

**Kind**: instance method of [<code>SceneNodeList</code>](#SceneNodeList)  

| Param | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| callback | <code>!function(!SceneNode, number): boolean</code> | Filter function, passed each child node and its index. |
| thisArg | <code>?Object</code> | Optional value for `this` when executing the callback. |


* * *

<a name="SceneNodeList-map"></a>

### sceneNodeList.map(callback, thisArg) ⇒ <code>Array.&lt;\*&gt;</code>
Iterates all children and returns an array of the map function's result value for each child node.

**Kind**: instance method of [<code>SceneNodeList</code>](#SceneNodeList)  

| Param | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| callback | <code>!function(!SceneNode, number): *</code> | Map function, passed each child node and its index. |
| thisArg | <code>?Object</code> | Optional value for `this` when executing the callback. |


* * *

<a name="SceneNodeList-some"></a>

### sceneNodeList.some(callback, thisArg) ⇒ <code>boolean</code>
Iterates children until the test returns true for at least one child.

**Kind**: instance method of [<code>SceneNodeList</code>](#SceneNodeList)  
**Returns**: <code>boolean</code> - True if the test function returned true for at least one child.  

| Param | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| callback | <code>!function(!SceneNode, number): boolean</code> | Test function, passed each child node and its index. |
| thisArg | <code>?Object</code> | Optional value for `this` when executing the callback. |


* * *

<a name="SceneNodeList-at"></a>

### sceneNodeList.at() ⇒ <code>SceneNode</code>
Note: calling `at()` repeatedly (e.g. in a `for` loop) is not as fast as using SceneNodeList's iteration methods such as `forEach()`,
`some()`, or `map()`.

**Kind**: instance method of [<code>SceneNodeList</code>](#SceneNodeList)  
**Returns**: <code>?SceneNode</code> - Child node at the specified index in the list, or null if index is out of bounds.  

| Param | Type |
| --- | --- |
| index | <code>number</code> |


* * *
