reference/structure/handlers.md, before:

# Menu command handlers

Your `main.js` file returns a map linking each commandId (from the manifest) to a _handler function_:

```js
function sayHello(selection, documentRoot) {
    console.log("Hello, world!");
}

module.exports.commands = {
    helloCommand: sayHello
};
```

The command handler is passed two contextual arguments:
* The current [selection](../selection.md) state
* The root node of the entire document content (see [scenegraph](../scenegraph.md))

A command handler can either complete _synchronously_, as in the example above, or it can _return a Promise_ and finish its work _asynchronously_, like this example using [file IO](../uxp/using-file-apis.md):

```js
function sayHello(selection, documentRoot) {
    return fs.getFileForSaving().then(file => {
        return file.write("Hello, world!");
    });
}
```

## Accessing APIs

See [Available APIs](../core/apis.md) for a listing of different APIs and how to access them. Most APIs are loaded using `require()`,
but a few can be accessed directly as globals, and some key API objects are passed directly to your command handler function
([see menu item handlers](./handlers.md)).

Commit message:

Basic structure updated. Details TBD. This one's still rough.

reference/structure/handlers.md, after:

# Command handlers in `main.js`

All plugins must have a `main.js` file, which serves as the entry point for execution of your code. In this document, we'll cover some points to help you get oriented.


## Wiring your code to the manifest

Your `main.js` file returns a map linking each `commandId` from the manifest to a _handler function_ in your code:

```js
function sayHello(selection, documentRoot) {
    console.log("Hello, world!");
}

module.exports.commands = {
    helloCommand: sayHello
};
```

TBD Explanation of connection:
- function
- exports
- manifest


## Contextual arguments

The handler function (in the above example, `sayHello`) receives two contextual arguments from XD:

* The current [selection](../selection.md) state
* The root node of the entire document (see [scenegraph](../scenegraph.md))


## Sync and async

A command handler can either complete _synchronously_, as in the example above, or it can _return a Promise_ and finish its work _asynchronously_, like this example using [file IO](../uxp/using-file-apis.md):

```js
function sayHello(selection, documentRoot) {
    return fs.getFileForSaving().then(file => {
        return file.write("Hello, world!");
    });
}
```


## Accessing app APIs

See [Available APIs](../core/apis.md) to learn about available APIs and how to access them. Most APIs are loaded using `require()`, but a few can be accessed directly as globals, and some key API objects are passed directly to your command handler function
([see menu item handlers](./handlers.md)).


## Loading more code files

TBD
