reference/structure/manifest.md, before:

# The `manifest.json` file

The manifest is where you include metadata about your plugin. Simply put, the manifest is a list of facts about your plugin in the form of a JSON object. No executable code goes into your manifest.

## Example manifest

```json
{
    "id": "YOUR_ID_HERE",
    "name": "Name of Your Plugin",
    "version": "0.0.1",
    "description": "Description of your plugin.",
    "summary": "Summary of your plugin",
    "releaseNotes": "Release note",
    "keywords": [
        "utility",
        "productivity",
        "automation"
    ],
    "languages": [
        "en",
        "de",
        "fr"
    ],
    "website": "https://mywebsite.com",
    "author": "Your Name",
    "helpUrl": "https://mywebsite.com/help",
    "icons": [
        { "width": 48, "height": 48, "path": "images/icon01x.png" },
        { "width": 96, "height": 96, "path": "images/icon02x.png" },
        { "width": 144, "height": 144, "path": "images/icon03x.png" },
        { "width": 192, "height": 192, "path": "images/icon04x.png" }
    ],
    "host": {
        "app": "XD",
        "minVersion": "13.0.0",
        "maxVersion": "14.0.0"
    },
    "uiEntryPoints": [
        {
            "type": "menu",
            "label": {
                "default": "Hellow World",
                "fr": "Bonjour le monde",
                "de": "Hallo Welt"
            },
            "commandId": "helloCommand",
            "shortcut": { "mac": "Cmd+Shift+P", "win": "Ctrl+Shift+P" }
        }
    ]
}
```

See the sections below to learn more about each key/value field. All fields are required unless otherwise noted below.


## Top-level metadata

The top level of the manifest JSON object contains high-level information about your plugin.

Key path | Type | Description
---------|------|------------
`id`     | `string` | Unique identifier for your plugin. You can get your unique ID on the [Adobe I/O Console](https://console.adobe.io/plugins).
`name`   | `string` | Human-readable name of your plugin displayed in the Plugin Manager listing. (Note: if you're submitting your plugin, this name _must_ match the plugin name that is in your [I/O Console](https://console.adobe.io/plugins) plugin submission.) The name should be 3 - 45 characters.
`version`| `string` | Version number of your plugin in `x.y.z` format. *Must be three segments. Each version component must be between `0` and `99`.
`description` | `string` | Detailed description displayed in the Plugin Manager listing when "See details" is clicked. The detailed description should be 3 - 1000 characters.
`summary` | `string` | Short summary displayed in the Plugin Manager listing. Short summary should be 3 - 30 characters.
`releaseNotes` | `string` | _Optional._ Developer's release notes displayed when "See details" is clicked in the Plugin Mabager listing. The release note should be 3 - 1000 characters.
`keywords` | `string` | _Optional._ keywords for your plugin. Each keyword should be at least 2 characters and max length of concatenated kewords is 100 charactes excluding commas.
`languages` | `Array<String>` | Language(s) supported by your plugin. The language must be a two-letter code from [ISO 639-1](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_ISO_639-1_codes). Currently, only the following codes are allowed: `en` (english), `de` (german), `fr` (french), `ja` (japanese), `ko` (korean), `zh` (chinense), `es` (spanish), `pt` (brazilian portuguese).
`website` | `string` | _Optional._ web address for your plugin. The url should follow the standard url format and not exceed 1000 characters.
`author` | `string` | Plugin author's name. Name should be 3 - 40 characters.
`helpUrl` | `string` | Web url for your plugin's support/help page. The url should follow the standard url format and not exceed 1000 characters.
`icons` | `Array<Object>` | Icon(s) displayed in the Plugin Manager listing. png, jpg/jpeg formats are supported. Max file size is 1MB.
`host.app` | `string` | Indicates that this is a plugin for Adobe XD (currently, the only valid value here is `"XD"`).
`host.minVersion` | `string` | Minimum required version of Adobe XD (in `x.y.z` format) that can run this plugin. *Must be three segments* (typically you'll leave all segments set to 0 except for the major version number).
`host.maxVersion` | `string` | _Optional._ Maximum version of XD (in `x.y.z` format) that can run this plugin. *Must be three segments* as well.
`uiEntryPoints` | `Array<MenuItemDefinition or SubmenuDefinition>` | List of objects describing what entries your plugin adds to the _Plugins_ menu in XD. See the next section for details.

## UI entry points array

The `uiEntryPoints` field is an _array_ of objects, and each object must match one of the two formats below. Items appear in the _Plugins_ menu in the same order as they're listed in the `uiEntryPoints` array.

### MenuItemDefinition (executable menu items)

Key | Type | Description
----|------|------------
`type` | `string` | Entry point type. Currently `"menu"` is the only supported value.
`label` | `string` or `Object` | Label for this menu item that the user will select to run your plugin. May be a single string _or_ an object containing localized strings (see "Localization," below). Your menu item must [follow our plugin experience guidelines](../../xdpegs/5-ui.md#513-menus).
`commandId` | `string` | Identifier that links the menu item to a function in your plugin's JavaScript code. This identifier needs to be unique within your plugin (but doesn't need to be globally unique). It can be whatever you like, but it makes sense to succinctly describe what the command will do.
`shortcut` | `{mac: string, win: string}` | _Optional._ Object defining Mac & Windows keyboard shortcuts for this menu item. See "Keyboard shortcuts" below for details.

### SubmenuDefinition (submenu)

Key | Type | Description
----|------|------------
`type` | `string` | Entry point type. Currently `"menu"` is the only supported value.
`label` | `string` or `Object` | Label for this submenu. May be a single string _or_ an object containing localized strings (see below).
`menuItems` | `Array<MenuItemDefinition>` | Nested array specifying the menu items this submenu contains. Only a single submenu nesting level is supported, so this array may not contain any `SubmenuDefinition`s itself, only executable `MenuItemDefinition`s. Your menu item must [follow our plugin experience guidelines](../../xdpegs/5-ui.md#513-menus).

### Keyboard shortcuts

Keyboard shortcuts are defined separately for each platform (as seen in the example at the top of this tutorial). Each definition is a string that follows this syntax:

* One or more modifier keys, in any order, each one followed by `"+"`
    * _Mac:_ modifiers may be `Cmd`, `Ctrl`, `Opt` / `Alt`, or `Shift`. Shortcut _must_ contain at least one of `Cmd` or `Ctrl`.
    * _Win:_ modifiers may be `Ctrl`, `Alt`, or `Shift`. Shortcut _must_ contain `Ctrl`.

* A letter or number key.
    * Letters are case-insensitive (e.g. `"Cmd+P"` and `"Cmd+p"` mean the same thing and neither requires pressing Shift).
    * Other keys (including punctuation, arrow keys, or F1-F12) are currently _not supported_.

If your shortcut collides with a built-in XD command _or_ another plugin's shortcut, your shortcut will be ignored and you'll see a warning printed to the [developer console](/tutorials/debugging/#1-look-for-errors-in-the-developer-console).

## Localization

Plugin menu item labels can be localized to match the rest of XD's UI. Other fields such as `name` and `description` _cannot be localized yet._

Localized labels are represented as an object containing multiple translations, instead of a single string value:

```json
"label": {
    "default": "Menu Label",
    "fr": "Etiquette de Menu",
    "de": "Menübezeichnung"
}
```

A default string is always required. The language must be a two-letter code from [ISO 639-1](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_ISO_639-1_codes), _not_ a hyphenated code such as `en-US`. To avoid inconsistency with the rest of XD's built-in menu items, languages that aren't supported by XD are ignored.

You can also localize strings that appear in your plugin's own dialog UI, by choosing which strings to use in your UI based on the value of [application.appLanguage](../application.md#module_application-appLanguage).

Commit message:

manifest modified and submission doc updated

reference/structure/manifest.md, after:

# The `manifest.json` file

The manifest is where you include metadata about your plugin. Simply put, the manifest is a list of facts about your plugin in the form of a JSON object. No executable code goes into your manifest.

## Example manifest

```json
{
    "id": "YOUR_ID_HERE",
    "name": "Name of Your Plugin",
    "version": "0.0.1",
    "description": "Description of your plugin.",
    "summary": "Summary of your plugin",
    "releaseNotes": "Release note",
    "keywords": [
        "utility",
        "productivity",
        "automation"
    ],
    "languages": [
        "en",
        "de",
        "fr"
    ],
    "website": "https://mywebsite.com",
    "author": "Your Name",
    "helpUrl": "https://mywebsite.com/help",
    "icons": [
        { "width": 48, "height": 48, "path": "images/icon01x.png" },
        { "width": 96, "height": 96, "path": "images/icon02x.png" },
        { "width": 144, "height": 144, "path": "images/icon03x.png" },
        { "width": 192, "height": 192, "path": "images/icon04x.png" }
    ],
    "host": {
        "app": "XD",
        "minVersion": "13.0.0",
        "maxVersion": "14.0.0"
    },
    "uiEntryPoints": [
        {
            "type": "menu",
            "label": {
                "default": "Hellow World",
                "fr": "Bonjour le monde",
                "de": "Hallo Welt"
            },
            "commandId": "helloCommand",
            "shortcut": { "mac": "Cmd+Shift+P", "win": "Ctrl+Shift+P" }
        }
    ]
}
```

See the sections below to learn more about each key/value field. All fields are required unless otherwise noted below.


## Top-level metadata

The top level of the manifest JSON object contains high-level information about your plugin.

Key path | Type | Description
---------|------|------------
`id`     | `string` | Unique identifier for your plugin. You can get your unique ID on the [Adobe I/O Console](https://console.adobe.io/plugins).
`name`   | `string` | Human-readable name of your plugin displayed in the Plugin Manager listing. (Note: if you're submitting your plugin, this name _must_ match the plugin name that is in your [I/O Console](https://console.adobe.io/plugins) plugin submission.) The name should be 3 - 45 characters.
`version`| `string` | Version number of your plugin in `x.y.z` format. *Must be three segments. Each version component must be between `0` and `99`.
`description` | `string` | Detailed description displayed in the Plugin Manager listing when "See details" is clicked. The detailed description should be 3 - 1000 characters.
`summary` | `string` | Short summary displayed in the Plugin Manager listing. Short summary should be 3 - 30 characters.
`releaseNotes` | `string` | _Optional._ Developer's release notes displayed when "See details" is clicked in the Plugin Mabager listing. The release note should be 3 - 1000 characters. Release notes help both users and the CC Integrations Review team know what's new or fixed in your plugin.
`keywords` | `string` | _Optional._ keywords for your plugin. Each keyword should be at least 2 characters and max length of concatenated kewords is 100 charactes excluding commas.
`languages` | `Array<String>` | Language(s) supported by your plugin. The language must be a two-letter code from [ISO 639-1](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_ISO_639-1_codes). Currently, only the following codes are allowed: `en` (english), `de` (german), `fr` (french), `ja` (japanese), `ko` (korean), `zh` (chinense), `es` (spanish), `pt` (brazilian portuguese). This field will be displayed in the Plugin Manager to users when "See details" is clicked. 
`website` | `string` | _Optional._ web address for your plugin. The url should follow the standard url format and not exceed 1000 characters. This field will be displayed in the Plugin Manager to users when "See details" is clicked. 
`author` | `string` | Plugin author's name. Name should be 3 - 40 characters. This field will be displayed in the Plugin Manager to users when "See details" is clicked. 
`helpUrl` | `string` | Web url for your plugin's support/help page. The url should follow the standard url format and not exceed 1000 characters. This field will become visible in the Plugin Manager to users when "See details" is clicked. The support page you link must include information on how to get support. Note: For Github repositories, you should link to a `README.md` file or other markdown file that describes how to file an issue or directly to a new issue submission form. **Do not link directly to your repo's list of issues.**
`icons` | `Array<Object>` | Icon(s) displayed in the Plugin Manager listing. png, jpg/jpeg formats are supported. Max file size is 1MB. The icons will be displayed in the Plugin Manager listing. 
`host.app` | `string` | Indicates that this is a plugin for Adobe XD (currently, the only valid value here is `"XD"`).
`host.minVersion` | `string` | Minimum required version of Adobe XD (in `x.y.z` format) that can run this plugin. *Must be three segments* (typically you'll leave all segments set to 0 except for the major version number).
`host.maxVersion` | `string` | _Optional._ Maximum version of XD (in `x.y.z` format) that can run this plugin. *Must be three segments* as well.
`uiEntryPoints` | `Array<MenuItemDefinition or SubmenuDefinition>` | List of objects describing what entries your plugin adds to the _Plugins_ menu in XD. See the next section for details.

## UI entry points array

The `uiEntryPoints` field is an _array_ of objects, and each object must match one of the two formats below. Items appear in the _Plugins_ menu in the same order as they're listed in the `uiEntryPoints` array.

### MenuItemDefinition (executable menu items)

Key | Type | Description
----|------|------------
`type` | `string` | Entry point type. Currently `"menu"` is the only supported value.
`label` | `string` or `Object` | Label for this menu item that the user will select to run your plugin. May be a single string _or_ an object containing localized strings (see "Localization," below). Your menu item must [follow our plugin experience guidelines](../../xdpegs/5-ui.md#513-menus).
`commandId` | `string` | Identifier that links the menu item to a function in your plugin's JavaScript code. This identifier needs to be unique within your plugin (but doesn't need to be globally unique). It can be whatever you like, but it makes sense to succinctly describe what the command will do.
`shortcut` | `{mac: string, win: string}` | _Optional._ Object defining Mac & Windows keyboard shortcuts for this menu item. See "Keyboard shortcuts" below for details.

### SubmenuDefinition (submenu)

Key | Type | Description
----|------|------------
`type` | `string` | Entry point type. Currently `"menu"` is the only supported value.
`label` | `string` or `Object` | Label for this submenu. May be a single string _or_ an object containing localized strings (see below).
`menuItems` | `Array<MenuItemDefinition>` | Nested array specifying the menu items this submenu contains. Only a single submenu nesting level is supported, so this array may not contain any `SubmenuDefinition`s itself, only executable `MenuItemDefinition`s. Your menu item must [follow our plugin experience guidelines](../../xdpegs/5-ui.md#513-menus).

### Keyboard shortcuts

Keyboard shortcuts are defined separately for each platform (as seen in the example at the top of this tutorial). Each definition is a string that follows this syntax:

* One or more modifier keys, in any order, each one followed by `"+"`
    * _Mac:_ modifiers may be `Cmd`, `Ctrl`, `Opt` / `Alt`, or `Shift`. Shortcut _must_ contain at least one of `Cmd` or `Ctrl`.
    * _Win:_ modifiers may be `Ctrl`, `Alt`, or `Shift`. Shortcut _must_ contain `Ctrl`.

* A letter or number key.
    * Letters are case-insensitive (e.g. `"Cmd+P"` and `"Cmd+p"` mean the same thing and neither requires pressing Shift).
    * Other keys (including punctuation, arrow keys, or F1-F12) are currently _not supported_.

If your shortcut collides with a built-in XD command _or_ another plugin's shortcut, your shortcut will be ignored and you'll see a warning printed to the [developer console](/tutorials/debugging/#1-look-for-errors-in-the-developer-console).

## Localization

Plugin menu item labels can be localized to match the rest of XD's UI. Other fields such as `name` and `description` _cannot be localized yet._

Localized labels are represented as an object containing multiple translations, instead of a single string value:

```json
"label": {
    "default": "Menu Label",
    "fr": "Etiquette de Menu",
    "de": "Menübezeichnung"
}
```

A default string is always required. The language must be a two-letter code from [ISO 639-1](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_ISO_639-1_codes), _not_ a hyphenated code such as `en-US`. To avoid inconsistency with the rest of XD's built-in menu items, languages that aren't supported by XD are ignored.

You can also localize strings that appear in your plugin's own dialog UI, by choosing which strings to use in your UI based on the value of [application.appLanguage](../application.md#module_application-appLanguage).
