guides/how-to-import-guide/README.md, before:

# How to read the contents of a file
This sample describes how an XD plugin can invoke the default file picker and display the text extracted from the file chosen by user.


## Technology Used
- References: [XD File I/O](/reference/uxp/using-file-apis.md)

## Prerequisites
- Basic knowledge of HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.
- [Getting Started Guide](/guides/getting-started-guide)
- [Debugging Guide](/guides/debugging-guide)

## Development Steps

> **Info**
> Complete code for this plugin can be found [on GitHub](https://github.com/AdobeXD/Plugin-Samples/tree/master/how-to-import).

### 1.  Create plugin scaffold

As described in the [Getting Started Guide](/guides/getting-started-guide), create the directory for your plugin:

```
$ cd ~/Library/Application\ Support/Adobe/Adobe\ XD\ CC\ \(Prerelease\)/plugins
$ mkdir com.adobe.xd.insertTextFromFile
$ cd com.adobe.xd.insertTextFromFile
$ touch manifest.json
$ touch main.js
```

Edit the manifest file for your plugin:

```js
{
    "id": "com.adobe.xd.insertTextFromFile",
    "name": "Insert Text from File",
    "host": {
        "app": "XD",
        "minVersion": "13.0.11.19"
    },
    "version": "1.0.0",
    "uiEntryPoints": [
        {
            "type": "menu",
            "label": "Insert Text From File",
            "commandId": "insertTextFromFileCommand"
        }
    ]
}
```

In the main.js file, link the commandId to a handler function

```js
async function insertTextFromFileHandler(selection) {
    // The body of this function is added later
}

module.exports = {
    commands: {
        "insertTextFromFileCommand": insertTextFromFileHandler
    }
};
```

The remaining steps in this guide describe additional edits to the main.js file.

### 2.  Get references to the `Text` and `Color` classes from XD’s `scenegraph` module
```js
const { Text, Color } = require("scenegraph");
```
`Text` and `Color` classes are imported and ready to be used.

### 3. Import XD's `localFileSystem` module
```js
const fs = require("uxp").storage.localFileSystem;
```
This example uses File I/O to import a file from user's local drive, so we need to require XD's `localFileSystem` module.

### 4. Create an asynchronous handler function
```js
async function insertTextFromFileHandler(selection) { // [1]
    const aFile = await fs.getFileForOpening({ types: ["txt"] }); // [2]
    if (!aFile)                                       // [3]
	return;

    const contents = await aFile.read();              // [4]

    const text = new Text();                          // [5]
    text.text = contents;
    text.styleRanges = [{
        length: contents.length,
        fill: new Color("#0000ff"),
        fontSize: 12
    }];
    selection.insertionParent.addChild(text);
    text.moveInParentCoordinates(10, 30);
}
```

1. This example uses XD's asynchronous Filo I/O APIs, so the handler function must be declared as an async method.
2. A file picker dialog is displayed, and the function waits for the user to select a text file.  See below for more detail.
3. If `aFile` is undefined (because the user did not select a file), then plugin execution is aborted.
4. The contents of the file is read, and it is returned as a string.  See below for more detail.
5. The contents of the string is added to a `Text` object, and the `Text` object is added to the currently-selected artboard.  For more information, see [How to create styled text](/guides/how-to-style-text-guide)

Line [2] uses a number of modern Javascript constructs.  It is executed as follows:
* First,`fs.getFileForOpening()` function returns a `Promise` object.
* Next, the `await` keyword causes this asynchronous function to pause until the `Promise` is fulfilled.
* If the user selects a file, then the `Promise` is fulfiled. The value of the `await` expression is that of the fulfilled promise, which is an `Array` containing one `File` object.
* If the user closes the file picker dialog without selecting a file, then the promise is also fulfilled. The value of the `await` expression is that of the fulfilled promise, which is an empty array.

Line [4] is also an asynchronous operation:
* First, `File.read` returns a `Promise` object.
* Next, the `await` keyword causes this asynchronous function to pause until the `Promise` is fulfiled.
* When the contents of the file has been read, the `Promise` is filfilled.  The value of the `await` expression is that of the fulfilled promise, which is a string containing the contents of the file.

### 5. Test the plugin

If you reload the plugin and execute it, you should see a file chooser like this one:

<img src="/images/readme-assets/filepicker.png" width="50%" height="50%">

If you select a file containing text, the text should be added to the currently-selected artboard:

<img src="/images/readme-assets/displayed-results.png" width="50%" height="50%">

## Next Steps

Ready for more? Take a look at other guides:

- [Guides](/guides)
- [Other samples](https://github.com/AdobeXD/Plugin-Samples)

Commit message:

Change mentions of Getting Started guide to Quick Start guide.

guides/how-to-import-guide/README.md, after:

# How to read the contents of a file
This sample describes how an XD plugin can invoke the default file picker and display the text extracted from the file chosen by user.


## Technology Used
- References: [XD File I/O](/reference/uxp/using-file-apis.md)

## Prerequisites
- Basic knowledge of HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.
- [Quick Start Tutorial](/guides/quick-start-guide)
- [Debugging Guide](/guides/debugging-guide)

## Development Steps

> **Info**
> Complete code for this plugin can be found [on GitHub](https://github.com/AdobeXD/Plugin-Samples/tree/master/how-to-import).

### 1.  Create plugin scaffold

As described in the [Quick Start Tutorial](/guides/quick-start-guide), create the directory for your plugin:

```
$ cd ~/Library/Application\ Support/Adobe/Adobe\ XD\ CC\ \(Prerelease\)/plugins
$ mkdir com.adobe.xd.insertTextFromFile
$ cd com.adobe.xd.insertTextFromFile
$ touch manifest.json
$ touch main.js
```

Edit the manifest file for your plugin:

```js
{
    "id": "com.adobe.xd.insertTextFromFile",
    "name": "Insert Text from File",
    "host": {
        "app": "XD",
        "minVersion": "13.0.11.19"
    },
    "version": "1.0.0",
    "uiEntryPoints": [
        {
            "type": "menu",
            "label": "Insert Text From File",
            "commandId": "insertTextFromFileCommand"
        }
    ]
}
```

In the main.js file, link the commandId to a handler function

```js
async function insertTextFromFileHandler(selection) {
    // The body of this function is added later
}

module.exports = {
    commands: {
        "insertTextFromFileCommand": insertTextFromFileHandler
    }
};
```

The remaining steps in this guide describe additional edits to the main.js file.

### 2.  Get references to the `Text` and `Color` classes from XD’s `scenegraph` module
```js
const { Text, Color } = require("scenegraph");
```
`Text` and `Color` classes are imported and ready to be used.

### 3. Import XD's `localFileSystem` module
```js
const fs = require("uxp").storage.localFileSystem;
```
This example uses File I/O to import a file from user's local drive, so we need to require XD's `localFileSystem` module.

### 4. Create an asynchronous handler function
```js
async function insertTextFromFileHandler(selection) { // [1]
    const aFile = await fs.getFileForOpening({ types: ["txt"] }); // [2]
    if (!aFile)                                       // [3]
	return;

    const contents = await aFile.read();              // [4]

    const text = new Text();                          // [5]
    text.text = contents;
    text.styleRanges = [{
        length: contents.length,
        fill: new Color("#0000ff"),
        fontSize: 12
    }];
    selection.insertionParent.addChild(text);
    text.moveInParentCoordinates(10, 30);
}
```

1. This example uses XD's asynchronous Filo I/O APIs, so the handler function must be declared as an async method.
2. A file picker dialog is displayed, and the function waits for the user to select a text file.  See below for more detail.
3. If `aFile` is undefined (because the user did not select a file), then plugin execution is aborted.
4. The contents of the file is read, and it is returned as a string.  See below for more detail.
5. The contents of the string is added to a `Text` object, and the `Text` object is added to the currently-selected artboard.  For more information, see [How to create styled text](/guides/how-to-style-text-guide)

Line [2] uses a number of modern Javascript constructs.  It is executed as follows:
* First,`fs.getFileForOpening()` function returns a `Promise` object.
* Next, the `await` keyword causes this asynchronous function to pause until the `Promise` is fulfilled.
* If the user selects a file, then the `Promise` is fulfiled. The value of the `await` expression is that of the fulfilled promise, which is an `Array` containing one `File` object.
* If the user closes the file picker dialog without selecting a file, then the promise is also fulfilled. The value of the `await` expression is that of the fulfilled promise, which is an empty array.

Line [4] is also an asynchronous operation:
* First, `File.read` returns a `Promise` object.
* Next, the `await` keyword causes this asynchronous function to pause until the `Promise` is fulfiled.
* When the contents of the file has been read, the `Promise` is filfilled.  The value of the `await` expression is that of the fulfilled promise, which is a string containing the contents of the file.

### 5. Test the plugin

If you reload the plugin and execute it, you should see a file chooser like this one:

<img src="/images/readme-assets/filepicker.png" width="50%" height="50%">

If you select a file containing text, the text should be added to the currently-selected artboard:

<img src="/images/readme-assets/displayed-results.png" width="50%" height="50%">

## Next Steps

Ready for more? Take a look at other guides:

- [Guides](/guides)
- [Other samples](https://github.com/AdobeXD/Plugin-Samples)
